# Bibweb

Bibweb is a utility for generating HTML bibliographies from BibTeX source files.
What it adds over similar tools is the ability to overlay BibTeX entries with
additional information. It is quite flexible because it uses TeX-like macros to
define all generated output.

## Usage

To run bibweb, it is given a bibweb script as an argument:

    bibweb example.bibweb

A minimal script that generates output from a BibTeX database looks like the
following:

```
pubs: input.bib
generate {
    output: output.html
    section:
}
```

A script may read input from multiple BibTeX databases, and may add additional
information to entries it has read. If a database is read using the `pubs`
command, its entries are automatically selected for inclusion in generated
output. The `bibfile` command can be used to read entries with selecting them.

A short summary of available commands is readily available:

    bibweb --help

You can also see all the default macro definitions, which can be overridden:

    bibweb --defns

## Syntax

The script is a sequence of attributes, some of which are recognized as commands.
An attribute can be declared on a single line:

    bibfile: input.bib

or on multiple lines, delimited by braces.

    bibfile {
        input.bib
    }

Most attributes work with either syntax.

## Top-level commands

At the top level of the script, ordinary attribute definitions simply define new macros or override the definition of existing macros. However, certain top-levels attributes are interpreted as commands.

### bibfile

The command `bibfile: <filename>` reads the specified file and parses it as
a BibTeX bibliography file. Entries in the file are not selected for use, however;
a subsequent `pubs` command must be used to choose which entries to use.

### pubs

The command `pubs: <filename>` reads the specified file just like `bibfile`,
but it also selects all entries in the file for use.

In the multiline syntax, `pubs` is used to select entries from bibliography files
that have been read, and to add or modify information about those entries.

```
  pubs {
    ...<publication>...
  }
```

The publication list consists of a series of attributes indexed by the key of
each publication. Each attribute specified in the value adds to or modifies the
information recorded about that publication.

### include

The command `include: <script>` includes another bibweb script at this point,its contents effectively replacing the `include` command.

### generate

The `generate` command generates output to a file. The output contains some
number of sections, each generated by a `section` subcommand.

## Publication attributes

In addition to the standard attributes defined by BibTeX, Bibweb also treats the `topic` attribute as standard. It may specify a list of topics. Additional attributes may be freely added.

Output for each publication is generated by the `\pubformat` macro. All attributes of the current publication are available in the context when this macro is expanded.

Some BibTeX attributes are renamed to avoid collisions. Notably, the attribute `url` is renamed `paperurl`.

## Generation commands

The following attributes are recognized as subcommands in a `generate` command.

### output

The `output` attribute specifies the name of the output file. Example:

```
  output: papers.html
```

### section

The section command specifies how to generate a section of the output, containing some subset of the publications in use.

## Important macros

`\pubformat`:
